ROFL revamp for marketplace and ROFL node (#1261)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/node/run-your-node/rofl-node.mdx

import DocCard from '@theme/DocCard';
import {findSidebarItem} from '@site/src/sidebarUtils';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ROFL Node

:::info

These instructions are for setting up a _ROFL node_ which executes ROFLs inside
a TEE, but otherwise only observes the ParaTime activity and can also submit
transactions.

:::

This guide will cover setting up your ROFL node for running ROFL apps on the
Oasis Network. This guide assumes some basic knowledge on the use of command
line tools.

## Prerequisites

### ParaTime Client Node

ROFL node is a special kind of a **ParaTime Client Node** with a TEE-capable
hardware in order to securely run ROFLs. First, complete the ParaTime Client
Node instructions:

1. Set up your [ParaTime Client Node] including support for [TEE ParaTimes].

> 2. Add the Sapphire ParaTime to your node ([Mainnet], [Testnet]).

Reviewer: Btw, we need to update documentation as one no longer need sto manually download ORCs. But that is a separate issue.

Author: Opened https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/issues/1278

> 3. To support [ROFL TDX raw and containers][rofl-types] enable support for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To support [ROFL TDX apps][rofl-types] enable support for
```

   [Intel TDX] on your node.

[ParaTime Client Node]: ./paratime-client-node.mdx#configuration
[TEE ParaTimes]: ./paratime-client-node.mdx#configuring-tee-paratime-client-node
[Mainnet]: ../mainnet/README.md#sapphire
[Testnet]: ../testnet/README.md#sapphire
[Intel TDX]: ./prerequisites/set-up-tee.mdx#tdx
[rofl-types]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-sdk/blob/main/docs/rofl/app.mdx

### Configure Firewall

Since you will be hosting 3rd party applications on your server, we strongly

> recommend to **configure your firewall for preventing any local area network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recommend to **configure your firewall to prevent any local area network
```

> connections from ROFL**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connections from ROFL apps**.
```

Using `iptables`, running something like this will prevent Oasis node and other
processes owned by the `oasis` user accessing LAN on `192.168.0.255` except for
the gateway:

```
iptables -A OUTPUT -d 192.168.0.1/32 -m owner --uid-owner $(id -u oasis) -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -d 192.168.0.0/16 -m owner --uid-owner $(id -u oasis) -j DROP
```

You can also permanently store the rules above. On Debian-based OSes you can do
so by running:

```shell
sudo apt install iptables-persistent
sudo /etc/init.d/iptables-persistent save
```

### Fund Your Node

The node will also need to cover any transaction fees required to maintain
registration of the ROFL node and the apps. First, determine the address of the
account corresponding to your node:

```shell
oasis-node identity show-address -a unix:/node/data/internal.sock
```

```
oasis1qp6tl30ljsrrqnw2awxxu2mtxk0qxyy2nymtsy90
```

> Then fund this account **on the Sapphire chain** by transferring or depositing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then fund this account **on Sapphire** by transferring or depositing
```

offers:
  - id: small
    resources:
      tee: tdx
      memory: 4096
      cpus: 2
      storage: 20000
    payment:
      native:
        terms:
          hourly: 10
    capacity: 50
```

To register a new provider using the configuration above, run:

```shell
oasis rofl provider create
```

The account signing the transaction is now registered as a ROFL provider
on-chain. In our case, the built-in `test:erin` account which we used for
signing has address `oasis1qqcd0qyda6gtwdrfcqawv3s8cr2kupzw9v967au6`.

:::info

Registering a new ROFL provider requires depositing
[100 tokens][stake-requirements] which are returned to you, when you deregister
it.

:::

[stake-requirements]: ./prerequisites/stake-requirements.md

[Oasis CLI]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/cli/blob/master/docs/README.md

#### Configure your ROFL node for the marketplace {#configure-rofl-node-marketplace}

1. Download the [latest release of the Scheduler ROFL app][rofl-scheduler]
   and save it to your ROFL node, for example `/node/rofls/`. This app will
   listen to ROFL hosting requests, configure any incoming ROFLs and spin them
   up. It will also listen to ROFL admin request for stopping or restarting the

>    ROFL machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ROFL machines.
```

2. Add the Scheduler ROFL app to your Oasis node's `config.yml` inside the

>    `runtime.paths` and configure the Scheduler specifics such as the provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `runtime.paths` and configure the scheduler specifics such as the provider
```

   address, acceptable offers and capacities on this node:

    ```yaml title="config.yml"
    runtime:
      sgx:
        loader: /node/bin/oasis-core-runtime-loader
      paths:
        - /node/rofls/rofl-scheduler.testnet.orc
      runtimes:
        # Sapphire Testnet RONL with SGX
        - id: "000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000a6d1e3ebf60dff6c"
          config:
            allowed_queries:
              - all_expensive: true
          components:
           - id: rofl.rofl1qrqw99h0f7az3hwt2cl7yeew3wtz0fxunu7luyfg # ROFL scheduler app ID, should not change
             permissions:
             - bundle_add
             - bundle_remove
             - volume_add

>              - volume_remove

Reviewer: These should be indented.

             config:
               rofl_scheduler:
                 provider_address: oasis1qqcd0qyda6gtwdrfcqawv3s8cr2kupzw9v967au6 # Your provider address
                 offers:
                   - small # Your offer name(s)
                 capacity:
                   instances: 24
                   memory: 65536
                   cpus: 24
                   storage: 549755813888
    ```
3. Restart your Oasis node. After a while, your ROFL node will be ready to
   accept ROFLs. ROFL app developers can now simply deploy their ROFL to your
   node by providing the `--provider <your address>` to the [`oasis rofl deploy`]
   command.

   ```shell
   oasis rofl deploy --provider oasis1qqcd0qyda6gtwdrfcqawv3s8cr2kupzw9v967au6
   ```

:::tip Multiple ROFL nodes

If you configured multiple ROFL nodes for a single provider, the machine
instantiated to execute the ROFL app will be arbitrarily picked depending on

> which ROFL node register transaction appears first one on the chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which ROFL node register transaction appears first on chain.
```

:::

> #### Multiple ROFL replicas on a single node {#rofl-app-id-remap}

Reviewer: This seems like an internal detail, not sure if we should mention it in the documentation? Especially once log view support is live.

Author: I shortened this and put it inside a tip admonition. I think it's important for ROFL node operators to know there can be multiple ROFL instances of the same app running on their machine.

To avoid collisions of multiple ROFL app replicas sharing the same app ID on the

> same node, the Scheduler will **remap** the ROFL app ID to a unique value on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
same node, the scheduler will **remap** the ROFL app ID to a unique value on
```

                protocol: tcp
                src_port: 443
                dst_port: 443
```

In the example above, we exposed a TCP port `443` externally on the IP address
`192.168.0.10` of our host.

[client node documentation]: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docs/node/run-your-node/paratime-client-node.mdx#configuring-tee-paratime-client-node

## Persistent storage

The encrypted persistent storage of each ROFL app replica lives in
`/node/data/runtimes/volumes/{random hex value}` folder.

It is generated when a ROFL app is executed for the first time and will remain
intact even during ROFL upgrades and removal. Beside is also a `descriptor.json`
that contains information which ROFL app does this volume belong to and other
metadata.

## Checking status

You can check the logs of any ROFL app by grepping its app ID in your Oasis node
log file. Since a Scheduler app to manage your ROFLs is also just a ROFL app,
you can check if there are any issues reported by Scheduler by grepping for
the its app ID:

```shell
grep rofl.rofl1qrqw99h0f7az3hwt2cl7yeew3wtz0fxunu7luyfg /node/data/node.log
```

To extract only the relevant `msg` field you may do:

```shell

> for l in "$(grep rofl.rofl1qrqw99h0f7az3hwt2cl7yeew3wtz0fxunu7luyfg /node/data/node.log)"; do echo "$l" | jq -r '.msg'; done

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
grep rofl.rofl1qrqw99h0f7az3hwt2cl7yeew3wtz0fxunu7luyfg /node/data/node.log | jq -r '.msg'
```
Should also work (unless the JSON is broken).
